
Hello Jim, Jitendra, Michael, Ken, and Jan,

I am following up with you on this report.

Campus budget was discussed in Divisional Council
(on which, Stuart and Kris also sit) by our
guests, CFO Rosemarie Rae and Provost Carol Christ.

They indicated that departments are preparing their
budget requests this month.  The CFO also indicated that
they are very much interested in a dialogue during
this process and have had meetings and continue
to have meetings with chairs and deans around this
process.  

The attached report was provided to the CFO and Provost prior to the
meeting, albeit without much lead time (Friday or Saturday), and to
the Divisional Council on the Monday morning of the meeting.  In
discusions at that meeting, Sanjay Govindjee (head of CAPRA) described
his analysis suggesting that the budget issues could entirely be
solved by optimization at central campus.  Sanjay has been saying much
the same thing both in and since the Fall meeting of the Academic
Senate. I also discussed the analysis in this report, along with some
other analysis using the administrations own Budget Dashboard, which
suggest the same thing.  To me, the CFO and Provost were largely
unable to address the points raised either in this report or by
Sanjay.

To be sure, by the end of the meeting, the CFO reiterated her
belief in transparency and her willingness to work together
to address these issues.

I suggest, that the budgetting process that are occuring now is a good
avenue for this.  Indeed, the CFO has invited it. 

May I suggest that as Chairs you collaborate with each other and
indeed invite chairs across campus to collaborate during the budget
process to ensure that the departments do not un-necessarily suffer in
the current climate.  The fact that the departments are being asked
to sacrifice while all extant analysis, including the administration's
own numbers, the bloat and growth has been in central campus.  Moreover,
the CFO and perhaps Provost have announced that this process should
very much hear from you.  So do take their request seriously.


Cheers,
Satish Rao

